g, where instead of theexpectedreturn, arisk-measureof the return is optimized, such as theConditional Value at Risk(CVaR).[59]In addition to mitigating risk, the CVaR objective increases robustness to model uncertainties.[60][61]However, CVaR optimization in risk-averse RL requires special care, to prevent gradient bias[62]and blindness to success.[63] Self-reinforcement learning[edit] Self-reinforcement learning (or self learning), is a learning paradigm which does not use the concept of immediate reward Ra(s,s') after transition from s to s' with action a. It does not use an external reinforcement, it only uses the agent internal self-reinforcement. The internal self-reinforcement is provided by mechanism of feelings and emotions. In the learning process emotions are backpropagated by a mechanism of secondary reinforcement. The learning equation does not include the immediate reward, it only includes the state evaluation. The self-reinforcement algorithm updates a memory matrix W =||w(a,s)|| such that in each iteration executes the following machine learning routine: 1. in situation s perform action a 2. receive a consequence situation s' 3. compute state evaluation v(s') of how good is to be in the consequence situation s' 4. update crossbar memory w'(a,s) = w(a,s) + v(s') Initial conditions of the memory are received as input from the genetic environment. It is a system with only one input (situation), and only one output (action, or behavior). Self reinforcement (self learning) was introduced in 1982 along with a neural network capable of self-reinforcement learning, named Crossbar Adaptive Array (CAA).[64][65]The CAA computes, in a crossbar fashion, both decisions about actions and emotions (feelings) about consequence states. The system is driven by the interaction between cognition and emotion.[66] Statistical comparison of reinforcement learning algorithms[edit] Efficient comparison of RL algorithms is essential for research, deployment and monitoring of RL systems. To compare different algorithms on a given environment, an agent can be trained for each algorithm. Since the performance is sensitive to implementation details, all algorithms should be implemented as closely as possible to each other.[67]After the training is finished, the agents can be run on a sample of test episodes, and their scores (returns) can be compared. Since episodes are typically assumed to bei.i.d, standard statistical tools can be used for hypothesis testing, such asT-testandpermutation test.[68]This requires to accumulate all the rewards within an episode into a single number - the episodic return. However, this causes a loss of information, as different time-steps are averaged together, possibly with different levels of noise. Whenever the noise level varies across the episode, the statistical power can be improved significantly, by weighting the rewards according to their estimated noise.[69] See also[edit] Temporal difference learningQ-learningStateactionrewardstateaction(SARSA)Reinforcement learning from human feedbackOptimal controlError-driven learningMulti-agent reinforcement learningApprenticeship learningModel-free (reinforcement learning)active learning (machine learning) References[edit] ^Kaelbling, Leslie P.;Littman, Michael L.;Moore, Andrew W.(1996)."Reinforcement Learning: A Survey".Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research.4: 237285.arXiv:cs/9605103.doi:10.1613/jair.301.S2CID1708582. Archived fromthe originalon 2001-11-20.^van Otterlo, M.; Wiering, M. (2012). "Reinforcement Learning and Markov Decision Processes".Reinforcement Learning. Adaptation, Learning, and Optimization. Vol. 12. pp. 342.doi:10.1007/978-3-642-27645-3_1.ISBN978-3-642-27644-6.^abLi, Shengbo (2023).Reinforcement Learning for Sequential Decision and Optimal Control(First ed.). Springer Verlag, Singapore. pp. 1460.doi:10.1007/978-981-19-7784-8.ISBN978-9-811-97783-1.S2CID257928563.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)^Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2010).Artificial intelligence : a modern approach(Third ed.). Upper Saddle River, New Jersey. pp. 830, 831.ISBN978-0-13-604259-4.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)^Lee, Daeyeol; Seo, Hyojung; Jung, Min Whan (21 July 2012)."Neural Basis of Reinforcement Learning and Decision Making".Annual Review of Neuroscience.35(1): 287308.doi:10.1146/annurev-neuro-062111-150512.PMC3490621.PMID22462543.^Salazar Duque, Edgar Mauricio; Giraldo, Juan S.; Vergara, Pedro P.; Nguyen, Phuong; Van Der Molen, Anne; Slootweg, Han (2022)."Community energy storage operation via reinforcement learning with eligibility traces".Electric Power Systems Research.212.Bibcode:2022EPSR..21208515S.doi:10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108515.S2CID250635151.^Xie, Zhaoming; Hung Yu Ling; Nam Hee Kim; Michiel van de Panne (2020). "ALLSTEPS: Curriculum-driven Learning of Stepping Stone Skills".arXiv:2005.04323[cs.GR].^Vergara, Pedro P.; Salazar, Mauricio; Giraldo, Juan S.; Palensky, Peter (2022).