Reinforcement learning (RL) is an interdisciplinary area of machine learning and optimal control concerned with how an intelligent agent should take actions in a dynamic environment in order to maximize a reward signal. Reinforcement learning is one of the three basic machine learning paradigms, alongside supervised learning and unsupervised learning. Q-learning at its simplest stores data in tables. This approach becomes infeasible as the number of states/actions increases (e.g., if the state space or action space were continuous), as the probability of the agent visiting a particular state and performing a particular action diminishes. Reinforcement learning differs from supervised learning in not needing labelled input-output pairs to be presented, and in not needing sub-optimal actions to be explicitly corrected. Instead, the focus is on finding a balance between exploration (of uncharted territory) and exploitation (of current knowledge) with the goal of maximizing the cumulative reward (the feedback of which might be incomplete or delayed).[1] The search for this balance is known as the exploration-exploitation dilemma. The environment is typically stated in the form of a Markov decision process (MDP), as many reinforcement learning algorithms use dynamic programming techniques.[2] The main difference between classical dynamic programming methods and reinforcement learning algorithms is that the latter do not assume knowledge of an exact mathematical model of the Markov decision process, and they target large MDPs where exact methods become infeasible.[3] Due to its generality, reinforcement learning is studied in many disciplines, such as game theory, control theory, operations research, information theory, simulation-based optimization, multi-agent systems, swarm intelligence, and statistics. In the operations research and control literature, RL is called approximate dynamic programming, or neuro-dynamic programming. The problems of interest in RL have also been studied in the theory of optimal control, which is concerned mostly with the existence and characterization of optimal solutions, and algorithms for their exact computation, and less with learning or approximation (particularly in the absence of a mathematical model of the environment). Basic reinforcement learning is modeled as a Markov decision process: The purpose of reinforcement learning is for the agent to learn an optimal (or near-optimal) policy that maximizes the reward function or other user-provided reinforcement signal that accumulates from immediate rewards. This is similar to processes that appear to occur in animal psychology. For example, biological brains are hardwired to interpret signals such as pain and hunger as negative reinforcements, and interpret pleasure and food intake as positive reinforcements. In some circumstances, animals learn to adopt behaviors that optimize these rewards. This suggests that animals are capable of reinforcement learning.[4][5] A basic reinforcement learning agent interacts with its environment in discrete time steps. At each time step t, the agent receives the current state S t {\displaystyle S_{t}} and reward R t {\displaystyle R_{t}} . It then chooses an action A t {\displaystyle A_{t}} from the set of available actions, which is subsequently sent to the environment. The environment moves to a new state S t + 1 {\displaystyle S_{t+1}} and the reward R t + 1 {\displaystyle R_{t+1}} associated with the transition ( S t , A t , S t + 1 ) {\displaystyle (S_{t},A_{t},S_{t+1})} is determined. The goal of a reinforcement learning agent is to learn a policy:  : S  A  [ 0 , 1 ] {\displaystyle \pi :{\mathcal {S}}\times {\mathcal {A}}\rightarrow [0,1]} ,  ( s , a ) = Pr ( A t = a  S t = s ) {\displaystyle \pi (s,a)=\Pr(A_{t}=a\mid S_{t}=s)} that maximizes the expected cumulative reward. Formulating the problem as a Markov decision process assumes the agent directly observes the current environmental state; in this case, the problem is said to have full observability. If the agent only has access to a subset of states, or if the observed states are corrupted by noise, the agent is said to have partial observability, and formally the problem must be formulated as a partially observable Markov decision process. In both cases, the set of actions available to the agent can be restricted. For example, the state of an account balance could be restricted to be positive; if the current value of the state is 3 and the state transition attempts to reduce the value by 4, the transition will not be allowed. When the agent's performance is compared to that of an agent that acts optimally, the difference in performance yields the notion of regret. In order to act near optimally, the agent must reason about long-term consequences of its actions (i.e., maximize future rewards), although the immediate reward associated with this might be negative. Thus, reinforcement learning is particularly well-suited to problems th