zy reinforcement learning[edit]By introducingfuzzy inferencein reinforcement learning,[53]approximating the state-action value function withfuzzy rulesin continuous space becomes possible. The IF - THEN form of fuzzy rules make this approach suitable for expressing the results in a form close to natural language. Extending FRL with Fuzzy Rule Interpolation[54]allows the use of reduced size sparse fuzzy rule-bases to emphasize cardinal rules (most important state-action values).Inverse reinforcement learning[edit]In inverse reinforcement learning (IRL), no reward function is given. Instead, the reward function is inferred given an observed behavior from an expert. The idea is to mimic observed behavior, which is often optimal or close to optimal.[55]One popular IRL paradigm is named maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning (MaxEnt IRL).[56]MaxEnt IRL estimates the parameters of a linear model of the reward function by maximizing the entropy of the probability distribution of observed trajectories subject to constraints related to matching expected feature counts. Recently it has been shown that MaxEnt IRL is a particular case of a more general framework named random utility inverse reinforcement learning (RU-IRL).[57]RU-IRL is based onrandom utility theoryand Markov decision processes. While prior IRL approaches assume that the apparent random behavior of an observed agent is due to it following a random policy, RU-IRL assumes that the observed agent follows a deterministic policy but randomness in observed behavior is due to the fact that an observer only has partial access to the features the observed agent uses in decision making. The utility function is modeled as a random variable to account for the ignorance of the observer regarding the features the observed agent actually considers in its utility function.Safe reinforcement learning[edit]Safe reinforcement learning (SRL) can be defined as the process of learning policies that maximize the expectation of the return in problems in which it is important to ensure reasonable system performance and/or respect safety constraints during the learning and/or deployment processes.[58]An alternative approach is risk-averse reinforcement learning, where instead of theexpectedreturn, arisk-measureof the return is optimized, such as theConditional Value at Risk(CVaR).[59]In addition to mitigating risk, the CVaR objective increases robustness to model uncertainties.[60][61]However, CVaR optimization in risk-averse RL requires special care, to prevent gradient bias[62]and blindness to success.[63]Self-reinforcement learning[edit]Self-reinforcement learning (or self learning), is a learning paradigm which does not use the concept of immediate reward Ra(s,s') after transition from s to s' with action a. It does not use an external reinforcement, it only uses the agent internal self-reinforcement. The internal self-reinforcement is provided by mechanism of feelings and emotions. In the learning process emotions are backpropagated by a mechanism of secondary reinforcement. The learning equation does not include the immediate reward, it only includes the state evaluation.The self-reinforcement algorithm updates a memory matrix W =||w(a,s)|| such that in each iteration executes the following machine learning routine: 1. in situation s perform action a 2. receive a consequence situation s' 3. compute state evaluation v(s') of how good is to be in the consequence situation s' 4. update crossbar memory w'(a,s) = w(a,s) + v(s')Initial conditions of the memory are received as input from the genetic environment. It is a system with only one input (situation), and only one output (action, or behavior).Self reinforcement (self learning) was introduced in 1982 along with a neural network capable of self-reinforcement learning, named Crossbar Adaptive Array (CAA).[64][65]The CAA computes, in a crossbar fashion, both decisions about actions and emotions (feelings) about consequence states. The system is driven by the interaction between cognition and emotion.[66]Statistical comparison of reinforcement learning algorithms[edit]Efficient comparison of RL algorithms is essential for research, deployment and monitoring of RL systems. To compare different algorithms on a given environment, an agent can be trained for each algorithm. Since the performance is sensitive to implementation details, all algorithms should be implemented as closely as possible to each other.[67]After the training is finished, the agents can be run on a sample of test episodes, and their scores (returns) can be compared. Since episodes are typically assumed to bei.i.d, standard statistical tools can be used for hypothesis testing, such asT-testandpermutation test.[68]This requires to accumulate all the rewards within an episode into a single number - the episodic return. However, this causes a loss of information, as different time-steps are averaged together, possibly with different levels of noise. Whenev