tions are simply stored and 'replayed'[26]to the learning algorithm. Model-based methods can be more computationally intensive than model-free approaches, and their utility can be limited by the extent to which the Markov Decision Process can be learnt.[27] There are other ways to use models than to update a value function.[28]For instance, inmodel predictive controlthe model is used to update the behavior directly. Theory[edit] Both the asymptotic and finite-sample behaviors of most algorithms are well understood. Algorithms with provably good online performance (addressing the exploration issue) are known. Efficient exploration of Markov decision processes is given in Burnetas and Katehakis (1997).[12]Finite-time performance bounds have also appeared for many algorithms, but these bounds are expected to be rather loose and thus more work is needed to better understand the relative advantages and limitations. For incremental algorithms, asymptotic convergence issues have been settled[clarification needed]. Temporal-difference-based algorithms converge under a wider set of conditions than was previously possible (for example, when used with arbitrary, smooth function approximation). Research[edit] This sectionneeds additional citations forverification.Please helpimprove this articlebyadding citations to reliable sourcesin this section. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed.(October 2022)(Learn how and when to remove this message) Research topics include: Comparison of key algorithms[edit] Associative reinforcement learning[edit] Associative reinforcement learning tasks combine facets of stochastic learning automata tasks and supervised learning pattern classification tasks. In associative reinforcement learning tasks, the learning system interacts in a closed loop with its environment.[46] Deep reinforcement learning[edit] This approach extends reinforcement learning by using a deep neural network and without explicitly designing the state space.[47]The work on learning ATARI games by GoogleDeepMindincreased attention todeep reinforcement learningorend-to-end reinforcement learning.[48] Adversarial deep reinforcement learning[edit] Adversarial deep reinforcement learning is an active area of research in reinforcement learning focusing on vulnerabilities of learned policies. In this research area some studies initially showed that reinforcement learning policies are susceptible to imperceptible adversarial manipulations.[49][50][51]While some methods have been proposed to overcome these susceptibilities, in the most recent studies it has been shown that these proposed solutions are far from providing an accurate representation of current vulnerabilities of deep reinforcement learning policies.[52] Fuzzy reinforcement learning[edit] By introducingfuzzy inferencein reinforcement learning,[53]approximating the state-action value function withfuzzy rulesin continuous space becomes possible. The IF - THEN form of fuzzy rules make this approach suitable for expressing the results in a form close to natural language. Extending FRL with Fuzzy Rule Interpolation[54]allows the use of reduced size sparse fuzzy rule-bases to emphasize cardinal rules (most important state-action values). Inverse reinforcement learning[edit] In inverse reinforcement learning (IRL), no reward function is given. Instead, the reward function is inferred given an observed behavior from an expert. The idea is to mimic observed behavior, which is often optimal or close to optimal.[55]One popular IRL paradigm is named maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning (MaxEnt IRL).[56]MaxEnt IRL estimates the parameters of a linear model of the reward function by maximizing the entropy of the probability distribution of observed trajectories subject to constraints related to matching expected feature counts. Recently it has been shown that MaxEnt IRL is a particular case of a more general framework named random utility inverse reinforcement learning (RU-IRL).[57]RU-IRL is based onrandom utility theoryand Markov decision processes. While prior IRL approaches assume that the apparent random behavior of an observed agent is due to it following a random policy, RU-IRL assumes that the observed agent follows a deterministic policy but randomness in observed behavior is due to the fact that an observer only has partial access to the features the observed agent uses in decision making. The utility function is modeled as a random variable to account for the ignorance of the observer regarding the features the observed agent actually considers in its utility function. Safe reinforcement learning[edit] Safe reinforcement learning (SRL) can be defined as the process of learning policies that maximize the expectation of the return in problems in which it is important to ensure reasonable system performance and/or respect safety constraints during the learning and/or deployment processes.[58]An alternative approach is risk-averse reinforcement learnin